# Mutable vs Immutable Infrastructure

This article explains the difference between the mutable and immutable infrastructure.

> Terraform handles resource updates - *such as modifying the permissons of a local file* - **by destroying an existing resource and then re-creating it with the updated settings.**

Example:
```bash
resource "local_file" "pet" {
  filename        = "/root/pets.txt"
  content         = "We love pets!"
  file_permission = "0700"
}
```

When you run Terraform apply, the output might look like
```bash
$ terraform apply

#Output
# local_file.pet must be replaced
-/+ resource "local_file" "pet" {
      content                = "We love pets!"
      directory_permission   = "0777"
  ~   file_permission        = "0777" -> "0700" # forces replacement
      filename               = "/root/pet.txt"
      ~ id                    = "5f8fb950ac60f7f23ef968097cda01fd3c11bdf" -> (known after apply)
}
Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.
Do you want to perform these actions?
Terraform will perform the actions described above. Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
Enter a value: yes
local_file.pet: Destroying...
[id=5f8fb950ac60f7f23ef968097cda01fd3c11bdf]
Destroy complete after 0s
```

This output clearly shows that Terraform destroys the existing resource before creating a new one with updated permissions.


## Mutable Infrastructure in Practice
Imagive you are running a appliaiton server with Nginx version 1.17. 
-   When a new version is released, you might choose to update the webserver incrementally - from version 1.17 to 1.18, and later from 1.18 to 1.19.
-   The upgrade process often involves either:
    -   Manually downloading and installing the new version during a maintenance window.
    -   Automating the process iwht configuration management looks like `Ansible`.


For high availability, you might run a pool of servers with identical software and configuration. In this case, you have to update it in each and every server.

>An in-place update may lead to configuration drift over time. If one server fails to upgrade due to dependency issues, it will remain on an older version while others move forward, complicating future maintenance.


### Challenges with Mutable Infrastructure
When updating software on a system:
* Dependencies must be met for a successful upgrade.
* If one or more servers have unmet dependencies the upgrade might fail, leaving that server on an older version.
* AFter multiple update cycles, configuration drift can occur, where servers run different version of the software, increasing the complexity of troubleshooting and further updates.


## Embracing Immutable Infrastructure
Immutable infrastructure takes a different approach. Instead of modifying existing servers, you provision new servers with the updated version (for example, replacing Nginx 1.17 with 1.18). 
-   Once the new servers are confirmed to run correctly, the old servers are decommissioned.

>**In immutable infrastructure, resources are never modified post-deployment—they are always replaced.** This method minimizes the risk of configuration drift because the previous version remains unchanged until a fully validated new version is deployed.


### Benefits of Immutable Infrastructure
* Easier to version infrastructure and roll back to previous releases.
* Consistent environments reduce the complexity of governance and maintenance.
* Reliable deployment pipelines, as each release is a fresh creation rather than an update.

## Terraform and Immutable Infrastructure
> Terraform exemplifies immutalbe infrastrucuture by default.

For isntance, if you update a resource block - changing the permisson from "0777" to "0700" - Terraform destroyes the original resource and creates a new one with the updated settings.

```bash
resource "local_file" "pet" {
  filename        = "/root/pets.txt"
  content         = "We love pets!"
  file_permission = "0700"
}
```

```bash
$ terraform apply
# local_file.pet must be replaced
-/+ resource "local_file" "pet" {
    content               = "We love pets!"
    directory_permission  = "0777"
  ~ file_permission       = "0777" -> "0700" # forces replacement
    filename              = "/root/pet.txt"
    ~ id                  = "5f8fb950ac60f7f23ef968097cda0a1fd3c11bdf" -> (known after apply)
}
Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

local_file.pet: Destroying...
[id=5f8fb950ac60f7f23ef968097cda0a1fd3c11bdf]
local_file.pet: Destruction complete after 0s
local_file.pet: Creating...
[id=5f8fb950ac60f7f23ef968097cda0a1fd3c11bdf]
Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed. #<--------
```

### Note
-   By default, Terraform replaces the resource.
-   However, you may encounter scenarios where you wish to modify this behavior—for example, creating a new resource before the old one is decommissioned or retaining the old resource for a time. 
    -   Such behaviors can be controlled through **lifecycle rules** defined within the resource block
