# S3 with Terraform

>In this guide, you will learn how to create and manage an S3 Bucket using Terraform. We will cover the steps to:
>* Create an S3 bucket
>* Upload a file to the bucket, and
>* Attach a bucket policy that grands access to an existing IAM entity.

## Creating an S3 Bucket

Below is an example configuration where we define an S3 bucket with a unique name and attach a descriptive tag.

```bash
resource "aws_s3_bucket" "finance"{
    bucket  =   "finance-21092920"
    tags    =   {
        Description =   "Finance and Payroll"
    }
}
```

```bash
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

## Uploading a File to the S3 Bucket
After successfully creating the S3 bucket, the next step is to upload a file. We use the AWS S3 Bucket Object resource to achieve this. The key arguments required are:

* The bucket reference,
* The content (or reference to the file), and
* The key, which is the file name.


```bash
resource "aws_s3_bucket_object" "finance-2020" {
    content =   "/root/finance/finance-2020.doc"
    key =   "finance-2020.doc"
    bucket  =   aws_s3_bucket.finance.id
}
```

>If you want to upload the actual contents of a file instead of a literal string, use the `file()` function. For example, replace the content argument with content = file("`/root/finance/finance-2020.doc`") to correctly read the file’s contents.


## Applying a Bucket Policy
To grant access to members of an IAM entity named “finance-analysts”, we must attach a bucket policy to the S3 bucket. 
-   Note that IAM groups cannot be directly used as principals in S3 bucket policies. 
-   Instead, you should use individual IAM users or roles. 

The following data source fetches the details of the IAM group “finance-analysts”:

```bash
data "aws_iam_group" "finance-data" {
    group_name  =   "finance-analysts"
}
```
Next, we create an AWS S3 bucket policy resource which attaches a policy to the S3 bucket. The policy document uses Terraform interpolation to dynamically reference the bucket and IAM group details.

```bash
resource "aws_s3_bucket_policy" "finance-policy" {
  bucket = aws_s3_bucket.finance.id
  policy = <<EOF
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": "*",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::${aws_s3_bucket.finance.id}/*",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": [
          "${data.aws_iam_group.finance-data.arn}"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
EOF
}
```

After running `terraform apply`, the bucket policy is attached, granting full access to the specified IAM entity.

```bash
terraform apply
```

