# Introduction to AWS EC2 

>In this article, we explore Amazon EC2, one of AWS's most popular service for running virutal machine in the cloud.
>* EC2 instance --short for "Elastic Compute Cloud" -- provides scalable compute resources that can be deployed in minutes.
>* Like any physical or virtual computer, an EC2 instance run on operating system (e.g, a Linux Disturbution or Windows) and can host software such as databases, web servers, and application servers.



AWS supplies pre-configured templates known as Amazon Machine Images (AMIs). 
-   These images include the operating system and any additional software configurations required for your EC2 instances. 
    -   Popular AMIs include Ubuntu 20.04, RHEL 8, Amazon Linux 2, and Windows 2019.



Each AMI comes with an ID that is **specific to the AWS region** where you plan to deploy your instance. 
-  Additionally, EC2 provides various instance types, which are configurations combining CPU, memory, and networking performance tailored for specific workloads.


Persistent storage for EC2 instances is managed by Amazon EBS (Elastic Block Storage). 
-   AWS currently offers five types of EBS volumes, including three high-performance SSD options and two cost-effective HDD alternatives. 
-   You can choose the storage type and size to attach to your instance during provisioning, and additional disks can be attached later if needed.


Another powerful feature of EC2 is the ability to pass **user data** during instance creation. 
- This feature lets you execute configuration tasks or scripts automatically during startup. 

    -   For instance, to install the Nginx package on an Ubuntu server, you can supply the following shell script as user data:

        ```bash
        #!/bin/bash
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install nginx -y
        sudo systemctl enable nginx
        sudo systemctl start nginx
        ```