# AWS EC2 with Terraform

> In this lesson, you'll learn how to deploy an AWS EC2 instance running Ubuntu using Terraform.
>* This guide covers instance configuration, provisioining using startup script, setting up key-based SSH access, and configuring a security group for secure SSH Connections

## Deploying an EC2 Instance with Terraform
We begin by defining an AWS instance resource in Terraform. The configuration includes two mandatory arguments for our instance resource (named "webserver"):

* **AMI ID:** We use the AMI for an Ubuntu instance in the US West 1 region
* **Instance Type:** We select `t2.micro` instance, low-sepc option with one CPU and 1GB of RAM.


Optionally, **tags** are used to identity the instance, including a name ("webserver") and a **description** ("An NGINX WebServer on Ubuntu").
- A bash shell script is provided via the `user_data` argument using the here-doc syntax.
    -   This script updates the packages list, installs NGINX, enables it, and starts the service when the instance launches.


After configuring Terraform, run the following commands to preview and apply your changes.

```bash
terraform plan
terraform apply
```


## Accessing the EC2 Instance

Since the instance runs Ubuntu, SSH is the preferred method for remote access. 
-   However, the default Terraform configuration does not include an **IP address**, **key pair**, or **security group settings** for SSH, making direct SSH access impossible at this stage.


### Configuring Key-Based SSH Access

To enable SSH access, add an **AWS KeyPai**r resource that uses an existing public key file(web.pub) from the local machine. 
-   You have the option to load the public key using hte file functinon or simply include it content directly.


```bash
resource "aws_instance" "webserver" {
    ami           = "ami-0edab43b6fa892279"
    instance_type   =   "t2.micro"
    tags    =   {
        Name    =   "webserver"
        Description =   "An Nginx WebServer on Ubuntu"
    }

    user_data = <<EOF
        #!/bin/bash
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install nginx -y
        systemclt enable nginx
        systemctl start nginx
    EOF

    key_name = aws_key_pair.web.id
}


resource "aws_key_pair" "web" {
    public_key  =   file("/root/.ssh/web.pub")
}
```

### Configuring the Security Group
To allow SSH connections (port 22) from the internet to your web server, configure a security group.

-   In the previous example, the EC2 instance was deplyed in the default VPC and subnet, with a security group named "SSH access" allowing inbound SSH connections from any source (0.0.0.0/0).

    -   While this setup is acceptable in a demo environment, it is not recommended for production.


```bash
resource "aws_instance" "webserver" {
    ami =   "ami-0edab43b6fa892279"
    instance_type   =   "t2.micro"
    tags    =   {
        Name    =   "webserver"
        Description =   "An Nginx WebServer on Ubuntu"
    }
    user_data   =   <<EOF
        #!/bin/bash
        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install nginx -y
        systemctl enable nginx
        systemctl start nginx
    EOF
    key_name    =  aws_key_pair.web.id
    vpc_security_group_ids  =   [aws_security_group.ssh-access.id]
}


resource "aws_key_pair" "web" {
    public_key  =   file("/root/.ssh/web.pub")
}

resouce "aws_security_group" "ssh-access" {
    name    =   "ssh-access"
    description =   "Allow SSH access from the Internet"

    ingress {
        from_port   =   22
        to_port =   22
        protocol    =   "tcp"
        cidr_blocks =   ["0.0.0.0/0"]
    }
}
```

>Ensure that the cidr_blocks value is exactly `"0.0.0.0/0"` as shown. This setting is suitable for demonstration purposes only.


### Retrieving the Instance Public IP

For convenient management and remote access, add an output variable to retrieve the public IP address of the web server instance. 
-   This IP address can be used along with your SSH private key (paired with the provided public key) to access the server.

After running `terraform apply`, Terraform creates the key pair, security group, and EC2 instance. Due to configuration changes, Terraform might recreate the EC2 instance. 
-   Once complete, you can use the output public IP and your private key to establish an SSH connection from your local machine.