# Using Modules from the Registry

> In this lesson, you will learn how to leverage modules from the Terraform Registry to simplify your infrastructure provisioning.
>* Terraform Modules allow you to reuse and share configurations across projects, streamlining your workflow. 
>* While a local module resides on the same machine as Terraform, modules from the Registry offer the added benefit of being shared with the community.


## Local Module Example

```bash
module "dev-webserver" {
  source = "../aws-instance/"
  key    = "webserver"
}
```


## Terraform Registry Modules

Modules in the Terraform Registry are organized by the provider they support. They come in 2 categories:

* **Verified Modules:** Tested and maintained by HashiCorp, these modules are makred with a blue tick. For example, AWS security group moduels often appear as verified solutions

* **Community Modules**: Created by users, these modules are not validated by HashiCorp.

When searching for a module—say, to create AWS security groups—you might encounter multiple options. Each module in the Registry includes detailed information such as the publisher, available versions, and helpful usage instructions with examples.



### Referencing a Security Group Module
The following example demonstrates how to reference an AWS security group module from the Terraform Registry:

```bash
module "security-group" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/security-group"
  version = "3.16.0"
  # insert the 2 required variables here
}
```


### Creating an SSH Security Group
A common use case is to create a security group that permits inbound SSH access. The SSH module requires three mandatory inputs:

* The name of the security group.
* The VPC in which it will be created.
* A list of ingress CIDR blocks allowed access for SSH.

Below is the configuration for the SSH sub-module:
```bash
module "security-group_ssh" {
  source              = "terraform-aws-modules/security-group/aws/modules/ssh"
  version             = "3.16.0"
  vpc_id              = "vpc-7d8d215"
  ingress_cidr_blocks = [ "10.10.0.0/16" ]
  name                = "ssh-access"
}
```

>It is highly recommended to specify the module version to ensure consistency and prevent unintended updates. Omitting the version may cause Terraform to download the latest module revision, potentially introducing changes that could disrupt your environment.


### Initializing and Downloading Modules
To use a module from the Terraform Registry, start by initializing your Terraform configuration. If the provider plugins are already downloaded, you can simply run the command to fetch the module:

```bash
$ terraform get
Downloading terraform-aws-modules/security-group/aws 3.16.0 for security-group_ssh...
- security-group_ssh in .terraform/modules/security-group_ssh/modules/ssh
```


Following the download, create the security group by executing:

* `terraform plan` – to view the changes.
* `terraform apply` – to apply the configuration.
